collaborative business analysis (cba) is a methodology that involves bringing together different stakeholders, including business users, analysts, and technical specialists, to collaboratively analyze data and gain insights into business operations. the primary objective of cba is to encourage knowledge sharing and collaboration between the different groups involved in business analysis, as this can lead to a more comprehensive understanding of the data and better decision-making. cba typically involves a range of activities, including data gathering and analysis, brainstorming, problem-solving, decision-making and knowledge sharing. these activities may take place through various channels, such as in-person meetings, virtual collaboration tools or online forums. this paper deals with virtual collaboration tools as an important part of business intelligence (bi) platform. collaborative business intelligence (cbi) tools are becoming more user-friendly, accessible, and flexible, allowing users to customize their experience and adapt to their specific needs. the goal of a virtual assistant is to make data exploration more accessible to a wider range of users and to reduce the time and effort required for data analysis. it describes the unified business intelligence semantic model, coupled with a data warehouse and collaborative unit to employ data mining technology. moreover, we propose a virtual assistant for cbi and a reference model of virtual tools for cbi, which consists of three components: conversational, data exploration and recommendation agents. we believe that the allocation of these three functional tasks allows you to structure the cbi issue and apply relevant and productive models for human-like dialogue, text-to-command transferring, and recommendations simultaneously. the complex approach based on these three points gives the basis for virtual tool for collaboration. cbi encourages people, processes, and technology to enable everyone sharing and leveraging collective expertise, knowledge and data to gain valuable insights for making better decisions. this allows to respond more quickly and effectively to changes in the market or internal operations and improve the progress.