monitoring the conditions of machines is vital in the manufacturing industry. early detection of faulty components in machines for stopping and repairing the failed components can minimize the downtime of the machine. in this article, we present a method for detecting failures in drill machines using drill sounds in valmet ab, a company in sundsvall, sweden that supplies equipment and processes for the production of pulp, paper, and biofuels. the drill dataset includes two classes: anomalous sounds and normal sounds. detecting drill failure effectively remains a challenge due to the following reasons. the waveform of drill sound is complex and short for detection. furthermore, in realistic soundscapes, both sounds and noise exist simultaneously. besides, the balanced dataset is small to apply state-of-the-art deep learning techniques. due to these aforementioned difficulties, sound augmentation methods were applied to increase the number of sounds in the dataset. in this study, a convolutional neural network (cnn) was combined with a long-short-term memory (lstm) to extract features from log-mel spectrograms and to learn global representations of two classes. a leaky rectified linear unit (leaky relu) was utilized as the activation function for the proposed cnn instead of the relu. moreover, an attention mechanism was deployed at the frame level after the lstm layer to pay attention to the anomaly in sounds. as a result, the proposed method reached an overall accuracy of 92.62% to classify two classes of machine sounds on valmet’s dataset. in addition, an extensive experiment on another drilling dataset with short sounds yielded 97.47% accuracy. with multiple classes and long-duration sounds, an experiment utilizing the publicly available urbansound8k dataset obtains 91.45%. extensive experiments on our dataset as well as publicly available datasets confirm the efficacy and robustness of our proposed method. for reproducing and deploying the proposed system, an open-source repository is publicly available at https://github.com/thanhtran1965/drillfailuredetection_scirep2022.