alongside the transition towards sustainable and renewable infrastructure and energy production, tunnelling projects that adopt tunnel boring machines (tbm) continue to increase in size and complexity. life cycle assessment (lca) methodologies have a significant impact on the architecture, engineering and construction (aec) industry, with a shift in focus to cost and carbon management across the infrastructure lifecycle through the use of digitalisation techniques and sustainability rating systems. this paper aims to develop a systematic framework to enhance the sustainability of underground infrastructure in the early design and construction stages, aiming for “build clever and efficiently”. this framework integrates digitalisation, carbon assessment standards, numerical modelling, and optimisation techniques to assess carbon emissions and establish benchmarks for construction products and processes. the approach uses parametric models to define tunnelling-related entities such as geological formations, tbm, and segments, designed with dimensional constraints that allow for adaptive modelling and interactions. enabled by building information modelling (bim) through parametric models enriched with domain properties, module-based carbon accounting is adopted to evaluate the footprint of material- and asset-level key emitters with functional units. leveraging established databases, baselines for segmental lining designs and carbon reduction strategies are established. through project-driven case studies, the correlations among geotechnical conditions, tunnel dimensions, and tbm operating parameters are developed to quantify tbm carbon emissions. a prototype programme demonstrates the framework's application on typical metro and road tunnels at different levels of details (lod). this paper serves as a guideline for conducting embodied carbon assessments specifically tailored to tbm tunnelling, acknowledging the substantial contribution of the tbm construction process, which is controlled by geotechnical conditions.